What I want is something like this app,
or this app, or this app,
where I see the app, or
I see a thing that I can interact with.
This isn't fun, I want something like
one of these, right, in place here.
So there's a trick.
Can you do that in Electron?
No, you cannot, sorry.
Can you hide this window and
then use a library to
position it right about here?
And then when this is clicked,
show this window, and then hide it again?
You can do that, [LAUGH] does that
get us almost all of the way there?
It does, right?
So we could turn this whole
app into a menu bar app and
do that instead,
that feels like a thing that we could do.
And that is, again, shockingly simple.
I'm just making sure, there's a library
that I might need to install,
called electron-positioner.
I have the types for it, all these dev
dependencies are in the wrong order.
electron-positioner, which has a bunch of
functionality, but most notably it's for
positioning windows, and
it's got a whole bunch of ways to do that.
The ones that we care about in our
time together here is I wanna put
it right here, right?
Where this menu ought to be,
to give the illusion.
And I mean, I don't even know,
who knows what these are, right?
These could be Electron apps too,
for all I know.
I want to give the illusion
that it is a peer to any one of
these other applications.
So let's go ahead and let's try that out.
And so, cool, we got that in place.
I don't really need this context
menu anymore, that was cool.
And again, you can literally do the same
when you right-click on something,
have a custom menu.
It is effectively, you request the menu
through IPC, you send it back,
you open it.
So we've got this onClick here
that we can do stuff with.
And so let's pull in
electron-positioner in this case.
And so what I'll do here is I'll say,
import positioner.
I think I want the full positioner,
if I'm not mistaken,
I'm doing that a little bit from memory.
So we've got, We've got positioner from,
no, I might not have the right,
yeah, it looks good.
So by default, we will hide this window
because we don't wanna show it anymore.
And we wanna make sure I don't have
that thing where it starts showing it
for funzies.
Let's not ruin the surprise
of the Dev Tools as well, and
we kinda have that piece in place.
I think I need this,
it's a class, Positioner.
No, let's look in here and
find out what it is.
It is a namespace, Electron Positioner,
that is the default, so
that's just the default export.
Cool, so we've got that in place, and
now what we wanna do is we go in here and
we say,
positioner new Positioner for
that browser window, in this case.
And we also need the tray position.
No, I didn't ask for a capital letter.
Which one would do, on this positioner?
Yeah, you can see it's ruining
the surprise a little bit here.
Actually, you can do
bottom right if you want.
I want to calculate for
my points, I want the trayCenter.
So basically, what this does is
it takes basically your window,
which it knows the bounds of,
to a certain extent.
And it takes, in this case, the tray, and
it will figure out how to kind of
change the x and y of that window.
Why, IntelliSense, trayCenter.
I need it from the tray.getBounds.
Sweet, and we've gotta make sure
we've declared that already.
All right, so
positioner wraps a browser window and
has the ability to manipulate
its location and size.
So that we also then find where it should
be based on the center of our actual tray,
which has a getBounds object,
which is an Electron rectangle.
It's doing the math for you, basically,
where's the tray, where's the window?
Put the window by the center of the tray,
right?
That's a lot of words out of my mouth
to do a relatively simple piece here.
And then we just say browserWindow,
we can set the position,
what's that last argument, animate?
We're gonna keep that as false for
now, we might turn it to true so
I can find out what that means.
I think you can watch it move,
it should be hidden as it happens.
Cool, and then we can say tray.onClick.
And so when that happens, all we really
wanna do at that point is we wanna say,
there's no tray, cuz,
We'll return, that's fine.
If the main window is visible,
then hide it, right?
Cuz we want it to toggle on and off.
And there's not a toggle, per se,
and you could write a function.
If it's visible, hide it, otherwise,
Could else, I, as a general rule,
don't like else statements, but
I'll just return, I can't live like this.
Return, cool, and then we can, basically,
cuz the thing can move
based on where it moves.
So we've gotta move it again as well.
I think we'll leave that there for
now, though.
We'll do main window,
that should all be fine.
I don't think this is
gonna move in this case.
I'm gonna keep it here for a second.
I could choose to move this code down.
I'm gonna just do a mainWindow.show.
Or browserWindow.show.
All right, so this should,
when I click on it, show.
There is one other thing,
it gets a little wonky,
because there is a behavior we can
double click on things in Windows.
I think technically Mac OS too,
so we're also just going to
say tray., IgnoreDoubleClickEvents,
otherwise, as you're trying to toggle
it on and off, it gets super weird.
But that's a thing you can do as well,
cuz you can listen to double-click events.
No, we wanna, probably, let's choose to
move it, When we're about to show it.
Cool, and let's try that.
Look at that,
it feels like I got a menu bar out.
It's nobody's business that I don't,
cuz it feels like it.
And we saw before,
you can actually hide all of this as well.
And hide that top bar as well, and
kind of do stuff along those lines,
too, and kind of create a different feel.
This app, I think you can actually
pull this off as well, and
do stuff like that too, but you can
kinda get a little bit more nuanced.
But you can actually have this
thing live in the menu bar,
you could have it as something.
You can kinda do some version where it
maybe appears as a normal window, or
have a menu,
stuff along those lines, yeah.
>> And because we can have multiple
different browser windows,
we could have the intentional focus
version and the quick bar version?
>> Yep, right now, I've always
had this createWindow function,
which is creating a window,
setting a known preload script, and
then pointing it at a known index.html.
You can have multiple HTML files, you can
have one for the menu bar icon, one for
the full app, right?
You can have them share
the same preloaded scripts, so
they have access to the same things.
Or maybe each one gets a different
set of things if you're being
super secure, right?
You get a lot of flexibility in how
you wanna manage, navigate, and
orchestrate all these windows as well,
yep.
And then theoretically,
you could hold on to references to the
menu bar one as well as the main window.
And if something happens in one,
the main process kind of broker
the communication to one of
the other windows as well, right?
And so you can actually communicate
between them simultaneously too,
but, yeah.
Awesome, so
there's just one more slight thing we're
gonna talk about towards the end here.
And we're gonna switch to one more app,
which is just a super simple app that I'm
just mostly gonna take you on a tour of,
which is about using native modules,
right?
And just some of the tasting notes,
it's a little bit more,
we won't walk through it step by step.
But just to kinda look at
what that looks like, and
some of the nuances if you wanted to
have a SQLite database to persist data
instead of just the file system.
It's a little bit more like, if you need
it kinda thing, so we won't go all the way
in, but kind of just showing what
the different pieces around that too.